# Job-Board-Scraping

This was a project I created to help me in my search for a full time position as data analyst/scientist. The goal was to create a web scraping tool that could get data from hundreds of job listings across various job boards and use that information to help me when applying for jobs. I targeted three job boards for my project: Linkedin, Indeed, and Handshake. 

Indeed was the first board I scraped and was the easiest to do. I watched a few Youtube videos for inspiration and used some of the code from this page to help me get started: https://github.com/MrFuguDataScience/Webscraping/blob/master/July_2023_Indeed_Webscrape_Selenium.ipynb

Linkedin was the next job board I tried out and it was much harder for a few reasons. First, I didn’t use anyone else's code to help me out, so I pretty much had to do it from scratch. Next, Linkedin requires you to be logged in so I had to implement the process of signing in with an account as part of my code. Lastly, the underlying structure of the Linkedin website was much more complicated than Indeed, so it was a lot of trial and error figuring out what HTML, CSS, and XML to use. Also, not all the listings on the page appear until you scroll all the way down, so I had to implement a method to load all the listings before it starts scraping. There may be a better way of doing this as the process I chose makes the script take a very long time to fully execute, but it does work.

The last job board I chose to scrape is Handshake. Whereas Linkedin and Indeed had quite a few videos and website articles of people scraping them, there was nothing on the internet about people scraping Handshake. For Handshake you need to have some sort of school account to use it, so I had to use my college email account to log in to it. My school uses two factor authentication so I had to figure out how to implement that into my code when signing in to the website. The actual scraping part wasn’t that difficult, however handshake recently changed their underlying so I had to go back and find new elements to scrape.

I provided example CSV files for each of the websites I scraped. The Indeed and Handshake CSV files are ranked because I put the original CSV files into Chat GPT-4 and asked it to rank the listings based on my own preferences and skillset. Going forward my goal is to run this script weekly, extract new job listings from the past week, put the data into GPT-4 to rank it for me, and then apply to the jobs in order of the rank.
